Submitter Answers - Fixable
Task: 20260807_080545__tair-opensource_redisshake__1005

What is your analysis of the Sentinel task? (both occurrences)
Fixable
[Internal] Validity: Fixable

Select where the task had issues (check all that apply):
- [x] Instructions
- [x] Tests
- [x] Oracle Solution
- [x] Environment/Dockerfile

What issues did you find with the task?
- [x] Every requirement in the instructions is not properly tested
- [x] All test requirements are not properly specified in the instructions
- [ ] The instructions appear LLM generated
- [ ] The instructions are overly-prescriptive
- [ ] The task leaks solution information
- [x] The oracle does not implement the solution following the instructions
- [ ] Less than 10 fail-to-pass tests in the test suite

Issue details:

1) The oracle does not implement the solution following the instructions - The decoder reads Valkey's no-expiry marker as an ordinary timestamp and destroys the field. Valkey writes -1 for a field that never expires. It does not write 0. I checked this against Valkey itself rather than against the patch. src/expire.h defines EXPIRY_NONE as -1, src/entry.c returns that value from entryGetExpiry when a field has no expiry, the RDB_TYPE_HASH_2 save path writes it for every entry, and the load path tests against EXPIRY_NONE rather than against zero. The golden patch gates on expireAt != 0, so a field marked as never expiring comes out as hpexpireat <key> -1 fields 1 <field>. That is a timestamp from before 1970, and HPEXPIREAT with a past timestamp deletes the field. So replicating any real Valkey hash that has field expiry silently drops every field that does not expire, which is the common case. None of the shipped tests could see it, because all ten were written from what the oracle does rather than from what the format says.
- Is this issue fixable or not fixable? Fixable
- If fixable, how? I fixed the oracle rather than the instruction, because there is no honest way to write down that a field the source marked as never expiring should be given an expiry in the past. The guidelines allow editing the golden patch to correct an oracle that does not implement the instruction. Before doing it I checked whether the project had already fixed it upstream, since an existing upstream fix would be the one to adopt. It has not. The file on the default branch is byte identical to the one the patch produces, so the divergence is documented here rather than assumed. The change is one condition, expireAt != 0 becomes expireAt != -1, the file list is untouched, and the instruction and the tests moved with it. Reverting that one condition back to what the source pull request ships now drops the reward to 0.0 and is caught by 8 tests.

2) All test requirements are not properly specified in the instructions - Eight of the ten graded tests called two names that do not exist at the base commit and are stated nowhere the solving agent can see. Seven called o.SetIsValkey(true) and one called ParseObject with four arguments. At base HashObject has no SetIsValkey method and ParseObject takes three arguments. Neither name appears in instruction.md. Go builds a package as one unit, so the file does not compile and the whole package goes down together. Running the shipped bundle at base inside its own image gives this.

```
vet: internal/rdb/types/hash_valkey_test.go:74:4: o.SetIsValkey undefined
     (type *HashObject has no field or method SetIsValkey)
internal/rdb/types/hash_valkey_test.go:245:37: too many arguments in call to ParseObject
     have (*bytes.Buffer, number, string, bool)
     want (io.Reader, byte, string)
FAIL	RedisShake/internal/rdb/types [build failed]
```

That is eight of the ten fail-to-pass tests lost before any work starts. A correct solution that wires the source flavor through in any other shape scores zero on all eight. Both names are real code from the source pull request, so nothing here was made up. It does not help though. The agent is not shown the pull request and cannot guess a method name or an argument count out of thin air.
- Is this issue fixable or not fixable? Fixable
- If fixable, how? I repointed the graded tests at the contract a user actually sees instead of at the reference solution's internal wiring. The tests now write a whole snapshot file, hand it to the loader, and read back the command stream. Every symbol they touch exists at the base commit, which I checked one name at a time. To prove the tests are not just tied to a different set of internals, I wrote an independent implementation that carries the flavor through a completely different path, keeps ParseObject at three arguments and never defines SetIsValkey. It scores 33 of 33.

3) Every requirement in the instructions is not properly tested - Three things the instruction asked for had no test that could fail. Nothing read a file header at all, so the detection of a Redis source versus a Valkey one was completely ungraded. Nothing exercised the append-only-file signature check, which is the second place the source pull request changes. And nothing failed when an implementation used the Valkey layout for both sources, so the Redis side of type byte 22 was unguarded. The eight decoder tests all injected the flag straight into the object and skipped detection entirely. An implementation that adds the five command entries, ignores a fourth argument, gives the setter an empty body, hardcodes type byte 22 to the Valkey reader and never touches either header check scored reward 1.0 on the shipped bundle. That program cannot read a Valkey file at all and it corrupts every Redis 8.0 hash that decodes correctly at base.
- Is this issue fixable or not fixable? Fixable
- If fixable, how? The replacement tests build real snapshot files with both headers, so the detection is now the thing being measured. One test feeds a Valkey header holding an ordinary hash, which fails for anything that special cases the new type byte but never learns the new header. One feeds a Redis header holding a Redis body and passes at base, so it guards the old layout and fails the moment an implementation uses the Valkey one for both. One hands the reader an append-only base file that opens with a Valkey snapshot, and another does the same with a Redis one so the older flavor cannot be dropped when the check learns the new one. I proved each by breaking the oracle one requirement at a time. Twelve separate breaks all took the reward to 0.0 and each named the test that caught it.

4) The oracle does not implement the solution following the instructions - The instruction said support was added across the sync, scan, RDB and AOF paths. The golden patch leaves the scan path hardcoded to the Redis flavor behind a TODO comment. The source pull request does exactly the same thing, so the oracle is faithful there and the instruction is the side that overpromised.
- Is this issue fixable or not fixable? Fixable
- If fixable, how? I narrowed the instruction to name only the snapshot and append-only-file paths, which are the two the golden patch really implements and the two the tests now grade. Nothing about the oracle changed for this one.

Additional findings outside the listed categories:

5) The verifier awarded full marks on runs that had failed. The grader recorded the test command's exit status and then never looked at it, so the reward came only from spotting the expected test names in the log. A compile break, a crash or a run that stopped halfway can all leave those names behind. Feeding one passing log to the shipped grader with the exit status set to 1 returns reward 1, and the same log through the fixed grader returns reward 0. Fixed by adding the exit status to the success condition inside the grader rather than bailing out early, because an early exit would mark every failing agent as a broken run instead of a wrong answer. I also gave the runner pipefail and gave the generated script set -e, since the runner is a separate shell that inherits neither.

6) There was no restore of the test tree before the eval tests were applied. The graded files were named internal/rdb/types/hash_valkey_test.go and internal/commands/hash_field_cmds_test.go, which are the names an agent writing tests for this feature would pick. On top of that the graded command test borrowed a helper called testEq out of the pre-existing keys_test.go, so an agent that merely edits its own test file breaks the graded set. Fixed by embedding a compressed copy of the five base test files inside test.sh as base64. The verifier now removes every test file in the tree, unpacks the base ones back, and only then applies the eval tests. None of it touches git, because the workspace the verifier runs in is not a git repository. I confirmed that directly by deleting git from the image, where the run still scores 33 of 33 through the patch fallback. I also checked it against an agent that writes its own tests at two graded paths with one of them not even valid Go, guts the shared helper file, deletes a graded file, commits everything and then removes the git directory. That run scores 1.0 on all 33 graded tests.

7) The oracle script undid its own work. Its last branch reverse-applied the patch and reported success, so a second run on an already-solved tree could put it back to base. It survived locally only because the three-way apply absorbs the second attempt, and that stops being true as soon as the repository cannot serve a three-way merge. Rewritten to the forward-only shape that checks whether the patch is already in, applies it plainly, retries with three-way, and then fails loudly. Three applies in one container now leave the tree solved every time.

8) Both entrypoints shipped non-executable at mode 0644. This does not fail at build time so nothing local catches it. Both are 0755 now and I checked the mode inside the built zip rather than on disk.

9) The shipped repository was already dirty at the base commit. build.sh and test.sh had lost their executable bits, so the tree did not match base. Restored, and the tree now reports nothing. No file content changed.

10) The regression guard was one test against nine that already existed. Five test files ship in the repository and only one of their tests was graded. It is now eleven guards covering every pre-existing test plus four new ones that pass at base.

11) task.toml had a blank licence field against an MIT licence file in the repository, no os field, and no difficulty explanation. The verifier limit was 300 seconds while the inner run limit was 1800, so the outer limit could never fire and a slow run would be killed with no result. The agent budget was 1800 seconds against a ceiling of 7200 on a task the same file estimates at 180 minutes of expert work. All five corrected.

12) The Dockerfile hid its own compile failure behind a trailing || true, so an image whose tree does not build would come out green and the failure would surface later as an unexplained verifier error. The compile now fails the build and the style check stays advisory. I also turned off the version-control stamp, because on a Go project a repository that is present but unreadable makes the build fail outright instead of skipping the stamp. I checked four repository states in the image and all four score 1.0.

13) The fail-to-pass count was exactly 10, which is inside the allowed range but makes the form's own more than 10 wording false as shipped. Seven of those ten were also the same decoding check repeated at different sizes. The set is now 19 tests covering roughly thirteen distinct behaviours, with some of the redundancy kept on purpose so a failure names which behaviour broke rather than just that something did.

14) The graded fixtures could never encode a length above 63, because both the entry count and every string length were written as one raw byte. That is the one encoding where reading the next byte and reading a real length happen to agree, so an implementation that never used the repository's own format helpers scored full marks while corrupting any hash with 64 or more fields or a value of 64 bytes or more. The fixtures now write proper multi-byte lengths and one graded case uses 100 fields with 200-byte values. The header the fixtures used was also a version Valkey rejects for its own magic, so that is corrected too.

15) The task was too easy and the difficulty screen said so, twice. This was not a surprise, because the check that measures it had already been run before the first upload and the first submission said in writing that the difficulty was unmeasured and probably low. The results file for the second attempt then corrected my own reading of the first: the run I had counted as a near miss had in fact scored zero out of thirty, missing even the pre-existing checks, because the agent deleted an import and left the package unable to compile. So both models were solving it every time, and the two things I had already tried had bought nothing.
- Is this issue fixable or not fixable? Fixable
- If fixable, how? Three rounds of it, each measured before it shipped rather than after. First by adding to what the pull request does, closing the scan path it had left behind a TODO with the later pull request that exists for exactly that job. Second by taking out of the instruction the two places where it stated the answer to its own hard parts, while keeping every contract a graded check rests on. Third by adopting a later fix for the append-only reader, which mishandles command arguments containing the byte pair that ends a line, and by grading the scan path end to end so a solution cannot add the version check and skip wiring it in. I also merged two graded checks into their siblings to make room without losing any assertion. I measured each of the three by handing the instruction to engineers who could not see the tests. That is how I know the first two bought nothing, and I have said so rather than claim otherwise.

16) A solution could pass without wiring up half of what the instruction asks for. The instruction says the scan path has to ask the server what it is and decode with the answer. Only the asking was graded, so an implementation could add the version check, never connect it to anything, and still score full marks. I had found this myself and disclosed it twice as something I could not grade, on the grounds that the path needs a live server and the verifier has no network. That reasoning was wrong. No network means nothing leaves the machine, not that there are no sockets.
- Is this issue fixable or not fixable? Fixable
- If fixable, how? The test now stands a server in front of the reader inside the test process, on a local socket, answering the handful of commands the reader actually sends. It answers the way a Valkey server answers and hands back a value whose layout only decodes correctly if that answer reached the decoder. Wiring the decoder to a fixed no instead of the server's reply now fails and one named check catches it. A Redis server going down the same path still gets the older layout, and that one passes before the change as well as after it, so it guards the opposite mistake too. Five consecutive runs to be sure the socket and the goroutines are not going to make it flaky.

17) One large hash field could stop the whole copy, silently and forever. The writer waits before sending while what it has already sent and not yet had answered would push the target over its allowance. That is sensible when the queue is busy and wrong when a single command is on its own bigger than the allowance, because the reply that would make room is for something that was never sent. The loop then spins forever. Nothing is logged, no error is returned, and the copy simply stops. This is reachable from the work in this task rather than being a distant corner. A Valkey hash field holding a large value comes out of the decoder as one hset command, which is exactly the shape that trips it.
- Is this issue fixable or not fixable? Fixable
- If fixable, how? By waiting only while the target actually owes an answer, and sending the oversized command anyway once nothing is outstanding, with a warning so it is visible in the log. The fix is adapted from a later change in this repository that exists for this exact failure. I measured it both ways rather than reasoning about it. Against the code as it stands the graded check sits on its full ten second deadline and the command never leaves the writer. With the fix it goes out in about a hundredth of a second. I also had four engineers implement the task from the instruction alone, and all four found this one, so I am not claiming it as a difficulty raise, only as a real defect on a path this task feeds.

--- Phase 2 (completed after the evals pass) ---

Files Changed:
1. instruction.md
   Changed: Rewritten twice. It states the snapshot header, the append-only-file check, the scan path check, the entry count that opens a Valkey body and the eight byte little-endian expiry. In the second revision it stopped naming the no-expiry marker, stopped explaining what makes a real server reply awkward, and stopped giving the header digit counts, while keeping every contract a graded assertion rests on.
   Why: Every graded deliverable has to be derivable from this text, and nothing it promises may go ungraded or unimplemented. The second revision is the difficulty work. Stating the answer to a task's two hard parts is why agents were solving it every time.
2. environment/problem_statement.md
   Changed: Re-copied from instruction.md.
   Why: The two must stay byte identical.
3. solution/golden.patch
   Changed: Three corrections beyond the original pull request, each adapted from a later one in the same repository. The condition inside the Valkey hash reader, so a field marked as never expiring is left alone rather than given an expiry from 1970. The append-only reader, so a command argument is taken by its declared length rather than by reading a line. And the writer's wait loop, so a single value larger than the target's allowance is still sent instead of parking the copy forever.
   Why: Each is a real defect that is still on the project's default branch today, and each is described in the issue blocks above. Without the first, replicating a Valkey hash destroys every field that does not expire.
4. tests/tests.patch
   Changed: Regenerated against the base commit. It now also carries an end to end test for the scan path, which stands a server in front of the reader on a local socket and checks that the answer it gives is what the decoder uses. The two old graded files are gone and three new ones replace them, internal/rdb/sentinel_valkey_rdb_test.go, internal/commands/sentinel_hash_stream_cmds_test.go and internal/reader/sentinel_valkey_aof_test.go. The patch creates all three from nothing and applies cleanly at the base commit.
   Why: To remove the two undiscoverable names, to grade the header detection and the append-only path that nothing reached, to catch the expiry marker bug, and to give the graded files names no agent would choose for its own.
5. tests/config.json
   Changed: fail_to_pass 10 to 14 and pass_to_pass 1 to 11, both listing real ids. Added a whole-repository build as a graded command ahead of the test command. Set GOFLAGS to turn off the version-control stamp. Moved the inner run limit to 1500 seconds so it sits under the verifier limit.
   Why: The graded set now matches what the instruction asks for, the build requirement is enforced, and the two timeouts no longer contradict each other.
6. tests/test.sh
   Changed: Added a re-exec guard so the script survives being handed to a plain shell. Added the base64 test tree restore described in finding 6, removing paths with rm -rf and no file type filter. Gave the runner pipefail and the generated script set -e, and made the runner append to the error log rather than truncate it. Added the exit status to the grader's success condition. Mode 0755.
   Why: So a run that failed cannot be graded as a pass, so an agent's own files cannot break the eval tests whatever shape they are, and so a rescued apply leaves a trace in the artifact.
7. solution/solve.sh
   Changed: Rewritten to the forward-only idempotent shape. Mode 0755.
   Why: The old last branch reverse-applied the patch and called that success.
8. environment/Dockerfile
   Changed: Turned off the version-control stamp, made the compile fail the build, kept the style check advisory.
   Why: A masked compile failure surfaces later as an unexplained verifier error, and on a Go project an unreadable repository breaks the build rather than being skipped.
9. task.toml
   Changed: repo_license MIT, added os, added difficulty_explanation, verifier timeout 300 to 1800, agent timeout 1800 to 7200.
   Why: Metadata accuracy and limits that no longer contradict each other.
10. environment/repo/build.sh and environment/repo/test.sh
   Changed: Executable bits restored to 100755.
   Why: The shipped tree was dirty against its own base commit. No file content changed.
11. environment/repo/.git
   Changed: Scrubbed, and the loose branch ref written back after the collection step.
   Why: So no history or eval material is readable from the agent's checkout, and so the refs directory is never an empty tree that an extractor can drop.

PR additions:
Yes, this round. The scan path was the one place the original pull request left unfinished. It carries a TODO saying to detect whether the server is Valkey and pass the right flag, and hardcodes Redis in the meantime, which is why the first submission had to stop promising that path. I closed it by adapting a later pull request from the same repository, number 1038, which adds server type detection for exactly that purpose and touches exactly that file. The original work is untouched and this sits on top of it. Two things I did not do. I did not copy it wholesale, since the graded tests here are mine and its own test file does not ship. And I did not carry its logic across unchanged, because it has a bug of the same kind as the one in issue 1, described in the comments below.
Two more additions since, both adapted the same way and both from later fixes in this repository. One is to the append-only reader, which mishandles command arguments containing the byte pair that ends a line, and the append-only path is one the original pull request already changes. The other is to the writer's wait loop, which stops forever on a single value bigger than the target accepts in one message. That one is reached by the original pull request's own output, since a hash field holding a large value becomes exactly such a command, which is why the later fix exists and is titled for oversized snapshot values. I took only the half of it that applies here. Its other half sits on top of a different later change this task does not have, and importing that would alter what the original pull request is about.

Post-fix confirmation (each verified after fixes):
[x] Every requirement in the instructions is properly tested
[x] All test requirements are properly specified in the instructions
[x] The instructions do not sound like an LLM generated them
[x] The instructions are not overly-prescriptive
[x] The task does not leak solution information
[x] The oracle implements the solution following the instructions
[x] The PR was not modified in any way beyond what is allowed by the guidelines
[x] More than 10 fail-to-pass tests in the test suite (counted: 20)

Send to reviewer: No. This is the round 4 resubmission and the checks have not run against it. Everything measurable locally is green. The open question is still difficulty and only the screen answers that, so the box goes on once it comes back.

What makes this task difficult?
I would rather give you a straight answer than a flattering one, because I kept measuring this and it kept telling me the same thing. The work is real and it is broad. One RDB type byte carries two different on-disk layouts, and which one applies is only knowable from the nine byte header at the very start, where the two forms are not even the same length, so the flavor has to travel from where the file opens down to the decoder through a call path that had no room for it. The same question has to be answered again on the scan path, where there is no file and the only way to know is to ask the server and read its reply. The expiry is an 8-byte little-endian value per field with a reserved marker for fields that never expire, and mistaking that marker for an ordinary timestamp deletes live data instead of failing loudly. The append-only reader has to take command arguments by their declared length, because one of those commands carries a raw snapshot and a line-based read cuts it in half. Three of those four are places where the person who wrote the original code got it wrong, and two of those bugs are still on the project's default branch today. That is what makes it a fair task. On how hard it is I have changed my mind once and I would rather show you why than just give you the new answer. Every time I handed this instruction to an engineer with no sight of the tests they passed, sixteen times across four rounds, and I took that to mean the task was easy. Those engineers were working with a newer model than the one the check actually grades, so that number was a ceiling and not a forecast, and the graded run bears it out. On the real run one of the two models lost seven checks to a single mistake. It read the never-expires marker as an unsigned number, kept it because it was not zero, and gave a live field an expiry of 18446744073709551615. Everything else in the task it got right. So the honest description is a broad, careful piece of work with one detail in it that punishes a reasonable reading and silently destroys data when it lands. A careful engineer beats it. A hurried one does not, and one of the two did not.

Senior engineer estimate: 40+ minutes

Comments for Reviewer:
This is revision 4, and the second one driven by the difficulty results rather than by my own guesses. Every earlier submission cleared the agentic judge and was then blocked at the difficulty screen. Every figure below was measured against an extract of the exact zip being uploaded, in an image built from that same extract.
The most important thing in this submission is the oracle fix in issue 1, so please look at that first. Valkey marks a field that never expires with -1, the source pull request reads that as a timestamp, and the result is an HPEXPIREAT dated before 1970 that deletes the field instead of keeping it. I did not take this from reading the patch. I read Valkey's own source, where EXPIRY_NONE is -1, the save path writes it for every entry of this hash type, and the load path compares against it rather than against zero. I then checked whether the project had already fixed it, because if it had, its fix would be the right one to adopt. It has not, and the file on the default branch is byte identical to what the patch produces, so I changed one condition and documented it here rather than assuming. The tests that shipped could not have caught this, because every one of them was written from what the oracle does rather than from what the format says, and so were my own first replacements until I checked the format.
The second thing worth your attention is that eight of the ten graded tests could not be passed by anybody. They called a method and a function signature that do not exist at the base commit and are named nowhere the agent can see, and because Go builds a package as one unit the file failed to compile and took all eight down with it. Both names are genuine code from the pull request, so nothing was invented, but I pointed the tests at the behaviour a user sees rather than writing those names into the instruction. To check that I had not simply swapped one set of internals for another, I wrote an implementation that carries the flavor through a different path entirely and never defines either name. It scores 33 of 33.
What the results file changed about all of this, which is worth reading before the rest. Round 1 looked like it had moved one model from 4 of 4 to 3 of 4. It had not. The one run that did not pass scored zero out of thirty, missing even the pre-existing checks that have nothing to do with this change, and its error log is a single line saying an import was missing and the package would not compile. The agent broke the build. So the true picture was eight solves out of eight, and my first two attempts at making this harder had both bought nothing. I would not have known that without the file, and I had been reading the earlier number as progress.
The same file carries the quality report. It passes, and its lowest mark by some way is test coverage at 3.5 out of 5, with the reason spelled out: a solution could add the version parser and never wire it into the scan path and still pass. That is a gap I had already found and disclosed, and having it confirmed from the outside made it the thing to fix rather than the thing to mention.
What round 3 adds, and why it is a different kind of thing. The first two attempts both amounted to more surface to specify, and once a format is written down, implementing it is mechanical. So this round adds a defect rather than a format. There is a later fix in this same repository for the append-only reader, which mishandles command arguments whose contents include the byte pair that ends a line. That happens constantly in practice, because a RESTORE command carries a raw snapshot value and snapshots are binary. The shipped code reads that argument with a line-based read and then cuts it to the declared length, which either crashes or silently leaves the reader positioned in the middle of a value, so everything after it is garbage.
This one is not a lookup. A length-prefixed argument exists precisely because the payload may contain the delimiter, and you get it right by noticing that a line-based read cannot be used there. I measured four versions of that single read. The one this fixes fails three of the graded checks, reading the declared length but not the terminator after it fails three, and keeping the terminator inside the argument fails three. Only the correct one passes.
And then I measured it the other way, which is the part you should weigh. I had four engineers implement the whole task from this instruction and the repository alone, with no sight of the tests. All four passed everything. All four read the argument by its declared length and consumed the terminator without being told to, and all four picked the same never-expires marker. So I am not claiming this round makes the task harder either. That is now three attempts, of three different kinds, that I measured at zero before asking you to upload any of them.
The one caveat that keeps me from calling it settled is that my four engineers run on a newer model than the two the difficulty check uses, so four out of four here is a ceiling rather than a forecast. The trap in this round is real and a weaker model may well fall into it. That is the only reason I am asking you to upload rather than telling you it is finished.
I also freed room for it honestly. The graded list was at eighteen of a maximum twenty, so rather than delete coverage I merged two checks into their siblings, one boundary value into the case next to it and one key-level expiry into the multiple-keys case. Every assertion survives and the count is unchanged.
One lever I recommended last time and then rejected on the evidence. I had wanted to adapt the fix for a writer deadlock on oversized values, because concurrency is exactly the kind of thing that is hard. Reading it against this repository killed it. It sits on top of a different later change this task does not have, and importing that would alter what the original pull request is about, which is not something I am allowed to do.
The gap I flagged last time is now closed, and it was the one thing in the quality report worth acting on. The instruction asks the scan reader to ask the server and decode with the answer, and until now only the asking was graded, so a solution could add the parser and never wire it in. The tests now stand a server in front of the reader inside the test itself, on a local socket with nothing leaving the machine, answer it the way a Valkey server answers, and hand it a hash that only decodes correctly if the answer reached the decoder. Wiring it to a fixed no instead of the server's answer now fails, caught by one named test, and a Redis server going down the same path still gets the old layout, which passes before the change as well as after it so it guards against the reverse mistake. I ran it five times in a row to be sure the socket and the goroutines are not going to make it flaky.
Local results. The no-op run gives reward 0 with a non-zero exit and no infrastructure error, and it is a real executed run rather than a compile failure standing in for one. All 13 regression guards ran and passed at base and all 20 graded tests ran and failed, with 45630 bytes of test output behind that. The oracle scores 1.0 with 33 of 33 in three separate fresh containers, and three applies inside one container leave the tree solved. I broke the oracle thirteen times against this bundle, once per stated requirement, and every break took the reward to 0.0 and named the test that caught it. I also ran whole implementations rather than only deletions, because a deletion tells you an assertion fires and nothing about whether anyone would trip it. Ten deliberate wrong ones all fail, including the two that reproduce what the upstream authors actually wrote, and sixteen honest ones written from the instruction alone all pass. That last number needs a caveat rather than a boast, and it is the thing I got most wrong in this task. Those sixteen ran on a newer model than the check actually grades, so it is a ceiling and not a forecast, and the graded run proves the point: one of the two real models lost seven checks to the never-expires marker while my sixteen all found it.
Two things about the tests that will look odd if you open them and are deliberate. Each snapshot load runs inside a child copy of the test binary, because the repository's logger ends Panicf with os.Exit, so an unreadable file loaded in process would end the whole package run and you would lose every other result in it. The two helper tests are the child halves and skip when the suite runs normally, and neither is graded. Second, the tests check that a newly routed command reports its key in the same position an existing command reports its own, rather than pinning a number, because the table's internal numbering is off by one from the argument index and I did not want to grade a convention the instruction does not state.
Things I deliberately did not change. model_difficulty says medium while difficulty says hard, and I am reporting that rather than editing either one. allow_extra_failures stays true because the run does not execute exactly the graded set, and the exit status gate now does that job better. The golden patch still leaves out the ten continuous-integration and documentation files the pull request also touches, since no test in the repository reads any of them and the guidance asks the patch to carry only what resolves the task. Say the word if you would rather have them.
Two smaller disclosures. My local packaging check reports a leak on environment/repo/scripts/commands/config.json, which is a false alarm. That file is the upstream specification for the Redis CONFIG command, one of 391 files in that folder, tracked at the base commit, and it holds nothing to do with the verifier. Deleting it would mean editing tracked source, so I left it and checked every other gate by hand. And the instruction still points at the repository's existing hash decoders for the shape of the emitted command stream rather than spelling those commands out. That is a deliberate trade, since spelling them out would hand over the exact strings the tests assert.

Handling time

How long did it take you to review the initial task and determine its validity?
75 minutes

How long did it take you to complete the initial task rewrite only?
135 minutes

How long did it take you to complete the additional questions on the form?
15 minutes

Total submission time: 225 minutes

How long did it take you to complete all revisions?
315 minutes
